---
layout: page
title: "Fun Stuff"
description: "Projects I do for fun"
---
{% include JB/setup %}

These are projects I do for fun. By fun, I mean that I enjoy them just
about as much as my other projects, but there is little to no practical
use in any of them, career-wise. That's ok. 

### Constructed Languages

I've done quite a lot with conlangs, as they are known, over the years.
This started with trying to learn [Elvish](ardalambion.com) when I was
12, and then making my own small Latinate languages. Then the dark years
went by, where I was too cool for these things. Then I saw the film
Avatar, by James Cameron, and had a very boring two weeks to kill in the
Blue Mountains in North Carolina over Christmas with my family. It was
during that time that I decided to learn Na'vi, and went over to [Learn
Na'vi](http://www.learnnavi.org) to do so. 

Over the next two years, I functioned as one of the main administrators
of the site, and most famously, collated words from various sources
together and compiled a [Na'vi dictionary](http://learnnavi.org/media/).
Na'vi is a language, based on no other, invented by [Paul
Frommer](http://www.naviteri.org). Over the years, this dictionary went
from a couple of hundred words to over 1500, was translated into 13
languages, had numerous appendices, thousands of edits. I did many radio
shows regarding my Na'vi skills, in the UK, Ireland, the US, and
Australia, and was also the centerpiece of the Sun, much to my lasting
dismay, where they hired make-up artists to paint me blue, and then
claimed I did it myself. I received a month's rent, but if you go to
Google, you'll see my everlasting shame. I also made a Na'vi language
audio pack for [Garmin GPS](http://learnnavi.org/media/) devices. 

After Na'vi, I wanted to experiment with some more languages. In the
summer of 2010, I invented [Llárriésh](http://llama.conlang.org/) as an
experiment to see how much I could do in one month. I eventually had a
few songs, a full grammar, and around 1000 words done, as well as part
of a story by my favourite author Gene Wolfe translated. I also set up
[Learn Dothraki](http://dothraki.org/), dedicated to the Dothraki
language created by [David Peterson](http://dedalvs.conlang.org/) for
George R.R. Martin's series, [A Song of Ice and
Fire](http://georgerrmartin.com/), which HBO has turned into the
award-winning series [A Game of
Thrones](http://www.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/index.html). However,
shortly afterwards I became overwhelmed with work. While I sat on the
voluntary board of the [Language Creation Society](http://conlang.org)
for a while, I resigned and stopped being the head of the Dothraki fanbase due to
time constraints. However, my [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/user/LearnDothraki) continues to generate
thousands of views. 

### Twitter

Continuing with conlangs, I occasionally tweet as
[@LearnValyrian](http://www.twitter.com/learnvalyrian) - however, as
David Peterson has now made a language for the film based on Valyrian, I
am not sure whether this will continue much longer. 

I tweet when musicians die at [@DeadGuys](https://twitter.com/DeadGuys).
We miss a lot of dead musicians, though,
[Simon](http://simon.vansintjan.net) and I. 

I have an anonymous Twitter account that I use very regularly, to talk
to myself. It is a great stress reliever. After the initial year's
challenge, again with Simon, was done, I have opened it to the public,
but no on seems to follow it. The details are [here](http://richardlitt.github.com/projects/2012/07/01/16-34-anonymous-twitterings/)

I also tweet occasionally as: [@Appril](http://www.twitter.com/Appril)
for [Appril](http://www.appril.org),
[@EM_LCT](http://www.twitter.com/EM_LCT) for my [Erasmus
Mundus](lct-master.org) programme,
[@LingStudents](http://www.twitter.com/LingStudents) for
[ULAB](http://www.lingstudents.co.uk),
[@SAIVUS](http://www.twitter.com/SAIVUS) for
[SAIVUS](http://www.saivus.org),
[@LSA_CELP](http://www.twitter.com/LSA_CELP) for the
[CELP](http://www.lsacelp.org),
[@ideaotter](http://www.twitter.com/ideaotter) for [Idea
Otter](http://www.ideaotter.com), and as
[@wyrdin](http://www.twitter.com/wyrdin) for my [Wired
In](http://wyrdin.org) program. 

### Collaborative Projects

Besides the above, I have a few other projects with friends. With Simon,
and hopefully others, I am working on an online collaborative story,
using only the Github for communication and writing. It is called [The
New Field](https://github.com/RichardLitt/the-new-field) - please join
us if you like the idea! Go and check it out. 

With Simon and [Chris Donia](http://www.chrisdonia.co.uk/) of [Paper
sculptures](http://thisiscentralstation.com/featured/mysterious-paper-sculptures/)
fame, I have a blog about good cafés to go and work in in Edinburgh. If
you're an Edinburgh resident, it is a must-use. Go to the aptly-named
[Edinburgh Cafes](http://edinburghcafes.com).
