---
layout: page  
title: "Projects"  
description: "Otherwise known as the annals of ideas past."  

---
{% include JB/setup %}

##Unexus

<a href="http://www.unexus.org"><img src="/images/unexus.png"
style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" title="Unexus" /></a>

I am the front-end web developer for [Unexus](http://www.unexus.org). We
are a new social, idea-sharing website, dedicated towards creating a new
future. You can read more about Unexus at [our
blog](http://blog.unexus.org), and check out some Tedx talks by other
members of the team [here](http://tedxbkk.com/2012). I'm not the
designer, though, so don't blame the beautiful website on me - I just
code it.  

---
##Wired In

<a href="http://www.wyrdin.com"><img src="/images/wi_avatar.png"
title="Wired In" style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" /></a>

I am the lead developer and head of [Wyrd In](http://www.wyrdin.com).  I
have been developing a time-tracking program for the past year called
[Wired In](https://github.com/RichardLitt/wired-in), which has helped me
organise my life on a daily basis. With the help of the [Erasmus Mundus
Alumni Association](em-a.eu), and [Realise
It](http://www.em-a.eu/en/home/newsdetail-activities-to-join/realise-it-2012-call-for-team-members-882.html),
I now have a [team](wyrdin.com/the-wyrd-in-team/) of six working on
making a finished product that we can offer to others who want to keep
track of their time.  

---
##IdeaOtter
<a href="http://www.ideaotter.com"><img src="/images/ideaotterbw.gif"
title="IdeaOtter" style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" /></a>

I do a lot of projects with [Simon](http://simon.vansintjan.net), who I
met in Edinburgh, and yeah, I guess we're pretty good friends now. One of
these projects is [IdeaOtter](http://www.ideaotter.com) - a place to
share ideas that you might have, whenever you have them. He's put a lot
of work into the site, and I help out when I can. We're currently making
a mobile app for the site, but it is fully functional, and you should
definitely check it out. 

---
##Appril
<a href="http://www.appril.org"><img src="/images/appril_header.png"
title="Appril" style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" /></a>


Another project with Simon, due to start in April, is
[Appril](http://www.appril.org/). We hope to see if we can get people to
build apps together, in a month. This is based off of
[NaNoWriMo](nanowrimo.org), where you write a novel in a month, and we
hope to see a lot of contestants this year. If you're a developer, go
check it out and sign up for the mailing list.

---
##Glossy & Healing Words
<a href="http://glossy.vansinthan.net"><img src="/images/glossy.png"
title="Glossy" style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" /></a>

Simon and I have also been working on two small applets and websites;
one of them is [Glossy](http://glossy.vansintjan.net/), which is
basically a way of making a front-end interface for any sort of
dictionaries you might find on the net, particularly for endangered
languages. Neither of us has had time to work on this for a while, but
we're hoping to work on it incrementally over the next few years.
[Healing Words](http://burntfen.net/healingwords.html) is a similar idea - 
what we'd like to do is provide an easy applet for first-aid responders
in crises-situations who need to have a basic dictionary in areas where 
they don't know the language.

---
##Tigatag
<a href="http://www.tigatag.com"><img src="/images/tigatag.png"
title="Tigatag" style="padding-top:30px;padding-bottom:30px;" /></a>

I occasionally help edit and write stuff, like games, for
[Tigatag](http://www.tigatag.com/), a gaming platform that Simon and
[Bruno](http://www.brunopanara.com/) have been making for a while, and
gotten funding for. The idea is to put social games on your smartphones,
so you can play them with friends - capture the flag, treasure hunt,
etc. It's pretty fun.
